Contribute MyST-NB with jupytext (#48)
numpy/numpy-tutorials: README.md

you use is appropriately licensed and available. Here again, even a rough idea
for artwork can be polished by others.

The NumPy tutorials are a curated collection of
[MyST-NB](https://myst-nb.readthedocs.io/) notebooks. These notebooks are used

> to produce static websites and opened as notebooks in Jupyter using
> [Jupytext]((https://jupytext.readthedocs.io). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to produce static websites and can be opened as notebooks in Jupyter using
[Jupytext](https://jupytext.readthedocs.io). 
```

> > __Note:__ You should use [common mark](https://commonmark.org) markdown
> > cells. Jupyter only renders common mark.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> __Note:__ You should use [CommonMark](https://commonmark.org) markdown
> cells. Jupyter only renders CommonMark.   
```

you use is appropriately licensed and available. Here again, even a rough idea
for artwork can be polished by others.

Pull requests are reviewed in markdown format. The 

> 

Reviewer: I think something is missing here :)

Author: whoops, I'll correct that in the next commit

> ### Why Jupyter Notebooks?

Author: @melissawm , I didn't want to delete existing text without a conversation. 

__Why ~~Jupyter~~ MyST-NB Notebooks?__

This would be a good place to discuss why we are using MyST-NB. Once you have Jupyter+Jupytext, the MyST markdown can be a direct replacement for ipynb without outputs. Since we do not review code outputs, it makes sense to avoid .json files that are meant to couple code+output.

Reviewer: I see. But I still think most users will come from a plain notebook experience, and might not know what MyST NB is. My thinking was that at some point we could add an action to let the user upload a .ipynb file and the action would create the md file using jupytext - the user wouldn't even need to do that if they didn't want to. 

Maybe @rossbar can also chip in here?

Author: That's true. That was the same thinking I had about discussing common mark vs myst-markdown in this Readme. 

I think I should take my own advice and keep this doc simple. 

I do think it would help to discuss these topics in another document. @bjnath's tutorial makes sense to me.

Reviewer 2: I agree with keeping it simple - there's a lot of terms and crosstalk (e.g. MyST the markdown flavor, the `myst-parser` which parses MyST-flavored markdown, `MyST-NB` which supports **both** a text-based notebook format *and* MyST-flavored markdown, etc.)

Fortunately none of this stuff should really be relevant for users. My vote would be to minimize trying to disentangle the above mess in our docs and state that `numpy-tutorials` uses a markdown-based format for Jupyter notebooks. Setting up a gh-action to auto-convert ipynb-to-md on push would be straightforward, though it might be more user-friendly to simply do so (with any necessary discussion) as part of the review process. There's a lot of flexibility here so I'm sure we can find an acceptable solution w/ more feedback from authors & reviewers.

Author: > Fortunately none of this stuff should really be relevant for users. My vote would be to minimize trying to disentangle the above mess in our docs and state that `numpy-tutorials` uses a markdown-based format for Jupyter notebooks. Setting up a gh-action to auto-convert ipynb-to-md on push would be straightforward, though it might be more user-friendly to simply do so (with any necessary discussion) as part of the review process. 

Yes, it would definitely help to leave out the "disentangling" discussion, especially in this front-facing README. 

I would prefer the notebook pairing process for users (i.e. they have both `.ipynb` and `.md` locally, but submit the `.md`). If they use the jupytext extension, then they don't need a cli approach. If they prefer cli, then the option is still there. In both cases, users can see what is being reviewed and they can update the local ipynb as the review occurs.

 * Jupyter notebooks are a common format for communicating scientific
   information.

>  * Jupyter notebooks can be launched in www.mybinder.org to interact

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * Jupyter notebooks can be launched in [Binder](https://www.mybinder.org), so that users can interact
```

Reviewer: Oh! And now in the paragraph above, these are **three** reasons :)

If you have your own tutorial in the form of a Jupyter notebook (a `.ipynb`
file) and you'd like to add it to the repository:

#### Create or pair your [`myst`](https://jupytext.readthedocs.io/en/latest/formats.html#myst-markdown) notebook

> The NumPy tutorials are reviewed and executed as a
> [MyST-NB](https://myst-nb.readthedocs.io/) notebooks. The benefit is that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The NumPy tutorials are reviewed and executed as
[MyST-NB](https://myst-nb.readthedocs.io/) notebooks. The benefit is that
```

> content is easier to review in this markdown format. You can convert or
> pair your `.ipynb` to `myst` using
> [Jupytext](https://jupytext.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html).
> Install `jupytext` using:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
content is easier to review in this markdown format. You can use 
[Jupytext](https://jupytext.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html) to convert 
or pair your `.ipynb` file to 
[MyST Markdown](https://github.com/mwouts/jupytext/blob/master/docs/formats.md#myst-markdown) 
format.

Install `jupytext` using:
```

```
pip install jupytext
```
or
```
conda install jupytext -c conda-forge
```

> Once installed, you can start your `jupyter lab` or `jupyter notebook`
> in the browser. When launching `jupyter lab` it will ask you to rebuild
> to include the Jupytext extension. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once installed, you can start your `jupyter lab` or `jupyter notebook`
session in the browser. When launching `jupyter lab` it will ask you to rebuild
to include the Jupytext extension. 
```

> ##### Convert the `.ipynb` to `myst`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Convert the `.ipynb` file to MyST markdown
```

> To convert your `notebook.ipynb` to MyST-NB, run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To convert a file named `notebook.ipynb` to MyST markdown, run the following command:
```

```
jupytext --to myst notebook.ipynb
```

> You will now have a `notebook.md` file that is in the MyST-NB format. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will now have a `notebook.md` file that is in the MyST markdown format. 
```

> ##### Pair the `.ipynb` to `myst`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Pair the `.ipynb` to a MyST markdown file
```

If you want to keep your `notebook.ipynb` synced to your `notebook.md`
file, you can pair the two formats in the classic Jupyter, Jupyter Lab,
or the command line:
<ul>
<details>
    <summary>
        <b>1. Classic Jupyter Jupytext pairing</b>.
    </summary>
    <img src="site/_static/01-classic.gif" width=80% height=80%>
</details>
    
<details>
    <summary>
        <b>2. Jupyter Lab Jupytext pairing</b>
    </summary>
    <img src="site/_static/02-jupyterlab.gif" width=80% height=80%>
</details>
</ul>

__3. Command line Jupytext pairing__

```
jupytext --set-formats ipynb,myst notebook.ipynb
```

> update either the MyST-NB or notebook:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
update either the MyST markdown or notebook file:
```

```
jupytext --sync notebook.ipynb
```

> __Note:__ With Jupytext installed, the classic Jupyter interface will

> > automatically open MyST-NB files as notebooks. In Jupyter lab, you can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> automatically open MyST files as notebooks. In JupyterLab, you can
```

#### Upload your content

> Remember to convert your `.ipynb` to `.md` (MyST-NB) before uploading it. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Remember to convert your `.ipynb` to `.md` (MyST markdown) before uploading it. 
```
